# beautiful lights

i want to fill my home with beautiful lights. lots of lighting that is warm and
encompassing and makes the space feel full. that is what i want. a homey vibe
and that is primarily driven by lights.

i just watched [this video by posy on
youtube](https://youtu.be/PEJnsBeQ_Y8?si=8GKV8rzMmft2Rc5B) and that has got me
super jazzed up about beautiful lights. i want lights like that around my home.

i have once again asked chatgpt for suggestions on brands for lights. the first
it has suggested is [tala lighting](https://talalighting.com/). im not gonna
lie, these are absolutely gorgeous lights. like legitimately pieces of art level
lights. there are certainly many that are way out of my budget atm but certainly
a destination for building a dream home.

next one up is [nostalgic bulbs](https://www.nostalgicbulbs.com/). this one
seems super sick right here and now. they have a bunch of nostalgic style bulbs,
ie edison, victorian, tubular, etc, including led versions. i'll need to play
around with non-led vs leds to see what i actually end up filling up with, since
it is my understanding that leds are more efficient and last longer, but we'll
see. if the real deal is just that much more beautiful, that's just that.
additionally, they sell light SOCKETS and other pieces to build my own lights.
all this and everything is SUPER affordable. absolutely sick.

we got [lumens](https://www.lumens.com/) up next. these lights are gorgeous.
absolutely wonderful. like, literally the perfect style. genuinely incredible.
they have a bunch of stuff that is more like tala, in that it is more like art
pieces, but like WAYYY more affordable. still not cheap, but better than tala i
think. they also seem to have a MUCH more HUGE selection and offer individual
bulbs.

up next is [1000 bulbs](https://www.1000bulbs.com/). this one doesnt stand out
to me too much. seems like they have some pretty cheap lights but idk it doesnt
super inspire confidence in me.

chatgpt also recommended like ace hardware/lowes and amazon, which im sure i
could find some cool stuff, but i think these offer me a much better selection
of what i actually want and im not having to deal with all that junk of
whatever.

i need to lock the fuck in on mora so i can start working on sound and lighting
stuff. the sound and the lights are the number one thing in making the space
feel like home and i need that asap. we'll get there though and once we do, it
will be incredible.
